Good day!
This is a course on how to write a play.
Not just any form of writing,
but writing a stage play.
Writing plays is different
compared to writing novels,
short stories, essays, and even poems.
However, playwriting actually
originated from poetry.
Although being a playwright today
means you're writing for the stage
and what you write
doesn’t have to be a poem,
still, it came from what's
known as dramatic poetry.
Generally, there are about
three types of poetry.
Narrative poetry is what
gave birth to various epics.
Today, a biography could be
in poetry form.
Those are forms of narrative poetry.
Another type is lyric poetry
which is given the most focus nowadays.
Lyric poetry is our
popular notion of poetry.
When people say,
"You're too poetic,"
they usually refer to lyric poetry
where emotions or moments
are usually expressed.
In dramatic poetry,
dialogue is necessary.
Like the dialogue between the ensemble
and the main character in Greek dramas.
Eventually, it developed into
having two characters.
Back then, it was just the ensemble
and the main character interacting
until eventually,
other characters came into play.
So it's focused on
what's being dramatized,
but in poetry form.
So all these types of poetry
were written to be performed.
It's different from
the later form of writing
which is written to be read.
Of course, today, we read the plays
that were written back then.
But since there were no publishers
and printing presses before,
these plays needed to be performed.
Even if they wrote it down,
it could easily be destroyed or lost
maybe because only the writer
had a copy.
But essentially, these plays were written
not to be read but to be performed.
And this is where
we will be focusing
since its writing mechanics
are different.
The basic unit of dramatic writing
is creating a scene.
Whether the writer
is conscious about it or not,
she has to put talking and
moving characters in a scene.
That’s the first thing I tell the participants
whenever I conduct workshops.
Create a scene, whether you
understand the instructions or not,
based on your own understanding.
Write a scene.
Don’t make a scene.
Write a scene
to show me
how you understand it.
Don’t limit yourself
to creating a realistic scene.
Just write a scene according to how you know
what a scene should look like.
Simple. It has a beginning,
middle, and end.
Write a scene.
Tell the story in that scene.
With or without dialogue,
it depends on how you understand it.
That’s where we’ll dissect
what a scene looks like,
what's in it,
and what it's leading up to.
It's up to you if you want to have
one or more characters in your story.
It's up to you.